# randomWalkWithCrowdants
This simulates a square lattice based diffusion and crowdant dynamics involved in linear polymer elongation.

Instructions on running the code (for MAC OSX 13.5.2 (22G91) Ventura) on Terminal with MacPorts for Linux compatability)
1. Download code into a folder and unzip
2. Ensure /yaml-cpp is downloaded and compiled (ref. makefile option >>make install)
3. In the directory /randomWalkWithCrowdants/ run >>make done
4. A directory ./bin should be estabilished if the code compiled with the file ./bin/mmc
5. Run the code using the command >>./bin/mmc [folder name]
[folder name] directory will be made under directory Data where all data files will be saved.	
6. Outputs should be in the form
>>time 99830
time 99840
time 99850
time 99860
time 99870
time 99880
time 99890
time 99900
time 99910
7. Visualizing the output requires depending on the task:
_>>python movie-diff.py 
_>>python reading-log-file.py [Data/folder name]
8. For polymerisation stats, a python script **reading-log-file.py** can be used in a following manner.
>>python3 reading-log-file.py [Data/folder name]
where [Data/folder name] points to the folder within the code directory where the outputs from the current run are stored.
9. 2D lattice time-series can be visualised frame by frame with .PNG images generated by using the command:
_>>python3 movie-diff.py_
Note: _movie-diff.py_ needs some manual interventions such as size of the lattice, size of the monomer and crowdants. This can be done interactively by editing the file.
10. For visualising the polymer number dynamics, number of polymer of suze "i" with time 
_>> python3 reading-pol-file.py [Data/folder name]
11. For plotting the probability distribution of the polymer length distribution at any saved iteration
_>> python3 hist-plot.py [Data/folder name] [i]   #  comment note: i is the integer
